WGU/D333-Ethics_in_Technology.md, before:

# D333-Ethics in Technology

## Notes
- **Ethics** is a code of behavior that is defined by the group to which an individual belongs.
- **Morals** are the persoonal principles upon which an individual bases his or her decisions about what is right and wrong.
- **Law** is a system of rules that tells us what we can or cannot do.
- A **code of ethics** states the principles and core values that are essential to one's work.
- **Corporate social responsability** is the concept that an organization should act ethically by taking responsability for its actions.
- **Internal control** is the process that is established by an organization's board of directors, managers, and IT group to provide reasonable assurance for the effectivness and efficiency of operations, the reliability of finantial reporting, and compliance iwth applicable laws and regulations.
- **Policies** are guidelines and laws by which the organization must abide.
- **Processes** are a collection of tasks designed to acomplish an objective.
- A **code of ethics** states the principles and core values that are essential to the work of a particular occupational group.
- The **Fair Credit Reporting Act** regulates operations of credit reporting bureaus.
- The **Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act** allows consumers to request and obtain a free credit report each year.
- The **American Recovery and Reinvestment Act** included strong privacy provisions for EHRs, including banning the sale of health information, promoting the use of audit trails and ecryption, and provising right of access for patients.
- Title III of the **Omnibus Crime Controler and Safe Street Act**(AKA the wiretap act) regulates the interception of wire or oral communications.
- The **USA PATRIOT Act** modified 15 existing statutes and gave sweeping new powers both to domestic law enforcement and international intelligence agencies, including the ability of law enforcement to eavesdrop on telephone communication, intercept email messages, and search medical, finantial, and other records.
- The **Foriegn Intelligence Surveillance Act Admendments Act of 2004** authorized intelligence gathering on individuals not affiliated with any known terrorist organization (AKA Lone wolfs)
- The **Foriegn Intelligence Surceillance Act of 1978 Amendments Act of 2008** granted the NSA expanded authority to collect, without court-approved warrents, international communications as they flow through the U.S. telecommunications equipment and facilities.
- The **PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act** granted a four-year extension of provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act and extended authorization for intelligence gathering on "Lone wolfs".
- **USA Freedom Act** terminated the bulk collection of telephone metadata by the NSA. It requires that the telecommunications carriers to hold the data and respond to NSA queries for data. This act also restored authorization for roving wiretaps and the tracking of "lone wolfs".
- The **Privacy Act** prohibits the U.S. government agencies from concealing the existance of any personal data record-keeping system.
- The **First Amedment** protects americans rights to freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom to assemble peacefuly, and the right to speak anonymously.
- The **Communications Decency Act** aims to protect children from porn.
- The **Child Online Protection Act** prohibits making harmful material available to minors via the internet.
- The **Children's Internet Protection Act** requires federally financed schools and livraries to use filters to block computer access to any material considered harmful to minors.
- **Intellectual propery** is a term used to describe works of the mind that are distinct and owned or created by a single person or group.
- A **copyright** is the exclusive right to distribute, display, perform, or reproduce an original work in copies; to prepare derivative works based on the work; and grant these exclusive rights to others.
- **Copyright infringement** is a violation of the rights secured by the owner of the copyright.
- The **Fair Use Doctrine** established four factors for courts to consider when deciding wether a particular use of copyrighted property is fair and can be allowed without penalty:
    1. The purpose and character of the use.
    2. The nature of the copyrighted work.
    3. The portion of the copyrighted work used.
    4. The effect of the use on the value of the copyrighted work.
- The **Prioritizing resources and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008** increased trademark and copyright enforcement and penalties for infringement.
- The original **General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GAAT)** in 1993 created the World Trade Organization(WTO).
- The **World Trade Organization(WTO** is a global organization that deals with rules of international trade based on WTO agreements that help producers of goods and services, exporters and importers conduct their business.
- The **World Intelectual Propery Organization(WIPO)** is an agency of the UN dedicated to "the use of intellectual propery as a means to stimulate innovation and creativity"
- The **Digital Millennium Copyright Act(DMCA)** signed in 1998, implements two WIPO treaties in the U.S. It also makes it illegal to circumvent technical protection or develop and provide tools that allow others to access a technilogically protected work.
- A **patent** is a grant of property right issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office(USPTO) to an inventor that permits its owner to exclude the public from making, using or selling a protected invention and allows for legal action against violators.
- The **Leathy-Smith America Invents Act** changed the U.S. patent system from a "first-to-invent" to "first-inventor-to file" system and expanded the definition of prior art which is used to determine the novelty of an invention and whether it can be patented.
- **Plagiarism** is the act of stealing someone's ideas or words and passing them off as one's own.
- **Reverse engineering** is the process of breaking something down in order to understand it, build a copy of it, or improve it.
- **Competetive intelligence** is legally obtained information that is gathered to help a company gain an advantage over its rivals.
- A **trademark** is a logo, package design, phrase, sound, or word that enables a consumer to differentiate one company's products from anothers.
- A **software defect** is any error that, if not removed, could cause a software system to fail to meet its user's needs.
- **Software quality** is the degree to which a software product meet the needs of its users.
- **Capability Maturity Model Integration(CMMI)** defines 5 levels of software development maturity:
    - Initial
    - Managed
    - Defined
    - Quantitively managed
    - Optimizing
- A **safty-critical system** is one whose failure may cause human injury or death.
- **Risk** is the potential of gaining or losing something of value. Risk can be quantified by three elements:
    - A risk element
    - The probability of the even happening
    - The impact on the business outcome
- The **Annualized Rate of Occurance(ARO)** isan estimate of the probability that an even will occur over the course of a year.
- The **Single Loss Expectancy(SLE)** is the estimated loss that would be incurred if the even happens.
- The **Annualized Loss Expectancy(ALE)** is the estimated loss from this risk over the course of a year. It is calculated using the following formula: `ARO * SLE = ALE`
- **Risk management** is the process of identifying, monitoring, and limiting risks to exceptable levels.
- **Reliability** is a measure of the rate of failure in a system that would render it unusable over its expected lifetime.
- **Labor productivity** is a measure of the economic performance that compares the number of goods/services produced with the number of labor hours used in producing said goods/services.
- An **Electronic Medical Record(EMR)** is a collection of health-related information on an individual that is collected and managed by a single heathcare organization. This information is not easily shared with others outside of the healthcare organization.
- An **Electronic Health Record(EHR)** is a comprehensive view of the patient's complete medical history designed to be shared among multiple healthcare organizations.
- An **Health Information Exchange(HIE)** is the process of sharing patient-level electronic health information between different organizations.
- A **Personal Health Record(PHR)** includes those portions of the EHR that an individual patient owns/controls.
- **Clinical Decision Support(CDS)** is a process and a set of tools designed to enhance health-related decision making through the use of clinical knowledge and patient-specific data. This approach can increase healthcare quality while reducing the costs.
- **Telehealth** is the use of telecommunications and IT to provide medical care to a broader ammount of patients.
- **Telemedicine** is the component of telehealth that provides medical care to people at a location different from the healthcare providers.
- **Earned media** refers to media exposure an organization gets through press and social media mentions.
- **Viral marketing** is an approach to social media marketing that encourages individuals to pass along a marketing message to others. Like Andrew Tate's video reuploaders who get money from Tate if the video does well.
- **Cyberabuse** is any form of mistreatment or lack of care, both physical and mental, based on the use of an electronic communications device that causes harm and distress to others.
- **Cyberharassment** is a form of cyberabuse in which the abusive behavior, which involves the use of an electronic communications device, is degrading, humiliating, hurtful, insulting, intimidating, malicious, or otherwise offensive to an individual or group of individuals causing substantial emotional distress.
- **Cyberstalking** is also a form of cyberabuse that consists of a long-term pattern of unwanted persistent pursuit and intrusive behavior that is directed by one person against another that causes fear distress in the victim.
- The **1994 Jacob Wetterling Crimes Against Children and Sexually Violent Offender Registration Act** set requirements for sec offender registration and notification in the United States. It also requires States to create websites that procive information on sex offenders within the state.
- The **Sex Offender Registration and Notification Provisions(SORNA)** of the Adam Walksh Child Protection and SafetyAct of 2006 set national standards that govern which sex offenders must register and what data must be captured.
- **Contigent work** is a job situation in which an individual does not have ana explicit or implicit contract for long-term employment.
- **Temporary staffing firms** recruit, train, and test job seekers in a wide range of job categories and skill levels, and then assign them to clients as needed.
- A **coemployment relationship** is one in which two emploters have actual or potential legal rights and duties with respect to the same emplotee or group of employees.
- A **PEO** is a business entity that hires the employees of its clients and them assumes all responsibility for all human resource management functions, including administration of benefits while the client compay remain responsible for directing and controlling the daily activities of the employees.
- The **gig economy** refers to a work enviornment in which temporary positions are common and organiztions contract with independent workers for short-term engagements.
- An **independent contractor** is an individual who provides services to another individual or organization according to term defined in a written contract or within a verbal agreement.
- An **H-1B** is a temporary work visa granted by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services(USCIS) for people who work in specialty occupations.
- **Outsourcing** is a long-term business arrangement in which a company contracts for services with an outside organization that has expertise in providing a specific function.
- **Offshore outsourcing** is a form of outsourcing in which the services are provided by an organization whose employees are in a foreign country.
- **Whistle-blowing** is an effort to attract public attention to an illegal, unethical, abusive, or dangerous act by an organization.
- **Green computing** is concerned with the efficient and environmentally responsible design, manufacture, operation, and disposal of IT-related products
- **Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool(EPEAT)** is a system that enables purchasers to evaluate, compare, and select electronic products based on 51 environmental criteria.
- **Virtue ethics** is an approach to ethics organized around the ideaof human flourishing and human excellence. Virtue ethics focuses on the qualities of character and patterns of living that reveal those qualities.
- **Virtues** are the capacity to excersize qualities like kindness and self-respect. Therefore what differentiates us from one another is wether or not we developed the ability to excersize the virtue. They are revealed throught pattern of action as virues must be kept continuosly.
- **Communitarianism** is an aproach to ethics that assumes humans exists in a state of mutual reliance. It states that individuals goal can take place only within a community.

Commit message:

start Utilitarianism definition/bullet point

WGU/D333-Ethics_in_Technology.md, after:

# D333-Ethics in Technology

## Notes
- **Ethics** is a code of behavior that is defined by the group to which an individual belongs.
- **Morals** are the persoonal principles upon which an individual bases his or her decisions about what is right and wrong.
- **Law** is a system of rules that tells us what we can or cannot do.
- A **code of ethics** states the principles and core values that are essential to one's work.
- **Corporate social responsability** is the concept that an organization should act ethically by taking responsability for its actions.
- **Internal control** is the process that is established by an organization's board of directors, managers, and IT group to provide reasonable assurance for the effectivness and efficiency of operations, the reliability of finantial reporting, and compliance iwth applicable laws and regulations.
- **Policies** are guidelines and laws by which the organization must abide.
- **Processes** are a collection of tasks designed to acomplish an objective.
- A **code of ethics** states the principles and core values that are essential to the work of a particular occupational group.
- The **Fair Credit Reporting Act** regulates operations of credit reporting bureaus.
- The **Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act** allows consumers to request and obtain a free credit report each year.
- The **American Recovery and Reinvestment Act** included strong privacy provisions for EHRs, including banning the sale of health information, promoting the use of audit trails and ecryption, and provising right of access for patients.
- Title III of the **Omnibus Crime Controler and Safe Street Act**(AKA the wiretap act) regulates the interception of wire or oral communications.
- The **USA PATRIOT Act** modified 15 existing statutes and gave sweeping new powers both to domestic law enforcement and international intelligence agencies, including the ability of law enforcement to eavesdrop on telephone communication, intercept email messages, and search medical, finantial, and other records.
- The **Foriegn Intelligence Surveillance Act Admendments Act of 2004** authorized intelligence gathering on individuals not affiliated with any known terrorist organization (AKA Lone wolfs)
- The **Foriegn Intelligence Surceillance Act of 1978 Amendments Act of 2008** granted the NSA expanded authority to collect, without court-approved warrents, international communications as they flow through the U.S. telecommunications equipment and facilities.
- The **PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act** granted a four-year extension of provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act and extended authorization for intelligence gathering on "Lone wolfs".
- **USA Freedom Act** terminated the bulk collection of telephone metadata by the NSA. It requires that the telecommunications carriers to hold the data and respond to NSA queries for data. This act also restored authorization for roving wiretaps and the tracking of "lone wolfs".
- The **Privacy Act** prohibits the U.S. government agencies from concealing the existance of any personal data record-keeping system.
- The **First Amedment** protects americans rights to freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom to assemble peacefuly, and the right to speak anonymously.
- The **Communications Decency Act** aims to protect children from porn.
- The **Child Online Protection Act** prohibits making harmful material available to minors via the internet.
- The **Children's Internet Protection Act** requires federally financed schools and livraries to use filters to block computer access to any material considered harmful to minors.
- **Intellectual propery** is a term used to describe works of the mind that are distinct and owned or created by a single person or group.
- A **copyright** is the exclusive right to distribute, display, perform, or reproduce an original work in copies; to prepare derivative works based on the work; and grant these exclusive rights to others.
- **Copyright infringement** is a violation of the rights secured by the owner of the copyright.
- The **Fair Use Doctrine** established four factors for courts to consider when deciding wether a particular use of copyrighted property is fair and can be allowed without penalty:
    1. The purpose and character of the use.
    2. The nature of the copyrighted work.
    3. The portion of the copyrighted work used.
    4. The effect of the use on the value of the copyrighted work.
- The **Prioritizing resources and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008** increased trademark and copyright enforcement and penalties for infringement.
- The original **General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade(GAAT)** in 1993 created the World Trade Organization(WTO).
- The **World Trade Organization(WTO** is a global organization that deals with rules of international trade based on WTO agreements that help producers of goods and services, exporters and importers conduct their business.
- The **World Intelectual Propery Organization(WIPO)** is an agency of the UN dedicated to "the use of intellectual propery as a means to stimulate innovation and creativity"
- The **Digital Millennium Copyright Act(DMCA)** signed in 1998, implements two WIPO treaties in the U.S. It also makes it illegal to circumvent technical protection or develop and provide tools that allow others to access a technilogically protected work.
- A **patent** is a grant of property right issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office(USPTO) to an inventor that permits its owner to exclude the public from making, using or selling a protected invention and allows for legal action against violators.
- The **Leathy-Smith America Invents Act** changed the U.S. patent system from a "first-to-invent" to "first-inventor-to file" system and expanded the definition of prior art which is used to determine the novelty of an invention and whether it can be patented.
- **Plagiarism** is the act of stealing someone's ideas or words and passing them off as one's own.
- **Reverse engineering** is the process of breaking something down in order to understand it, build a copy of it, or improve it.
- **Competetive intelligence** is legally obtained information that is gathered to help a company gain an advantage over its rivals.
- A **trademark** is a logo, package design, phrase, sound, or word that enables a consumer to differentiate one company's products from anothers.
- A **software defect** is any error that, if not removed, could cause a software system to fail to meet its user's needs.
- **Software quality** is the degree to which a software product meet the needs of its users.
- **Capability Maturity Model Integration(CMMI)** defines 5 levels of software development maturity:
    - Initial
    - Managed
    - Defined
    - Quantitively managed
    - Optimizing
- A **safty-critical system** is one whose failure may cause human injury or death.
- **Risk** is the potential of gaining or losing something of value. Risk can be quantified by three elements:
    - A risk element
    - The probability of the even happening
    - The impact on the business outcome
- The **Annualized Rate of Occurance(ARO)** isan estimate of the probability that an even will occur over the course of a year.
- The **Single Loss Expectancy(SLE)** is the estimated loss that would be incurred if the even happens.
- The **Annualized Loss Expectancy(ALE)** is the estimated loss from this risk over the course of a year. It is calculated using the following formula: `ARO * SLE = ALE`
- **Risk management** is the process of identifying, monitoring, and limiting risks to exceptable levels.
- **Reliability** is a measure of the rate of failure in a system that would render it unusable over its expected lifetime.
- **Labor productivity** is a measure of the economic performance that compares the number of goods/services produced with the number of labor hours used in producing said goods/services.
- An **Electronic Medical Record(EMR)** is a collection of health-related information on an individual that is collected and managed by a single heathcare organization. This information is not easily shared with others outside of the healthcare organization.
- An **Electronic Health Record(EHR)** is a comprehensive view of the patient's complete medical history designed to be shared among multiple healthcare organizations.
- An **Health Information Exchange(HIE)** is the process of sharing patient-level electronic health information between different organizations.
- A **Personal Health Record(PHR)** includes those portions of the EHR that an individual patient owns/controls.
- **Clinical Decision Support(CDS)** is a process and a set of tools designed to enhance health-related decision making through the use of clinical knowledge and patient-specific data. This approach can increase healthcare quality while reducing the costs.
- **Telehealth** is the use of telecommunications and IT to provide medical care to a broader ammount of patients.
- **Telemedicine** is the component of telehealth that provides medical care to people at a location different from the healthcare providers.
- **Earned media** refers to media exposure an organization gets through press and social media mentions.
- **Viral marketing** is an approach to social media marketing that encourages individuals to pass along a marketing message to others. Like Andrew Tate's video reuploaders who get money from Tate if the video does well.
- **Cyberabuse** is any form of mistreatment or lack of care, both physical and mental, based on the use of an electronic communications device that causes harm and distress to others.
- **Cyberharassment** is a form of cyberabuse in which the abusive behavior, which involves the use of an electronic communications device, is degrading, humiliating, hurtful, insulting, intimidating, malicious, or otherwise offensive to an individual or group of individuals causing substantial emotional distress.
- **Cyberstalking** is also a form of cyberabuse that consists of a long-term pattern of unwanted persistent pursuit and intrusive behavior that is directed by one person against another that causes fear distress in the victim.
- The **1994 Jacob Wetterling Crimes Against Children and Sexually Violent Offender Registration Act** set requirements for sec offender registration and notification in the United States. It also requires States to create websites that procive information on sex offenders within the state.
- The **Sex Offender Registration and Notification Provisions(SORNA)** of the Adam Walksh Child Protection and SafetyAct of 2006 set national standards that govern which sex offenders must register and what data must be captured.
- **Contigent work** is a job situation in which an individual does not have ana explicit or implicit contract for long-term employment.
- **Temporary staffing firms** recruit, train, and test job seekers in a wide range of job categories and skill levels, and then assign them to clients as needed.
- A **coemployment relationship** is one in which two emploters have actual or potential legal rights and duties with respect to the same emplotee or group of employees.
- A **PEO** is a business entity that hires the employees of its clients and them assumes all responsibility for all human resource management functions, including administration of benefits while the client compay remain responsible for directing and controlling the daily activities of the employees.
- The **gig economy** refers to a work enviornment in which temporary positions are common and organiztions contract with independent workers for short-term engagements.
- An **independent contractor** is an individual who provides services to another individual or organization according to term defined in a written contract or within a verbal agreement.
- An **H-1B** is a temporary work visa granted by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services(USCIS) for people who work in specialty occupations.
- **Outsourcing** is a long-term business arrangement in which a company contracts for services with an outside organization that has expertise in providing a specific function.
- **Offshore outsourcing** is a form of outsourcing in which the services are provided by an organization whose employees are in a foreign country.
- **Whistle-blowing** is an effort to attract public attention to an illegal, unethical, abusive, or dangerous act by an organization.
- **Green computing** is concerned with the efficient and environmentally responsible design, manufacture, operation, and disposal of IT-related products
- **Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool(EPEAT)** is a system that enables purchasers to evaluate, compare, and select electronic products based on 51 environmental criteria.
- **Virtue ethics** is an approach to ethics organized around the ideaof human flourishing and human excellence. Virtue ethics focuses on the qualities of character and patterns of living that reveal those qualities.
- **Virtues** are the capacity to excersize qualities like kindness and self-respect. Therefore what differentiates us from one another is wether or not we developed the ability to excersize the virtue. They are revealed throught pattern of action as virues must be kept continuosly.
- **Communitarianism** is an aproach to ethics that assumes humans exists in a state of mutual reliance. It states that individuals goals can take place only within a community. While a person's goals can be different than most of the communiy it is still shaped to some degree by the community that person is a part of.
- **Utilitarianism** is an approach to ethics that assumes humans are motivated by happiness.
