ConfigNotes.md, before:

# Things to Change About My Current Neovim Config
- [ ] Look into replacing harpoon with this plugin: [arrow.nvim](https://github.com/otavioschwanck/arrow.nvim)
- [ ] Change left most section of lualine with the current time. Currently it just show {line_num}:{column_num} which is not very useful
- [ ] Upgrade lazy.nvim
- [ ] Remove unused terminal toggle.
- [ ] Look into basedpyright and basedblack. Mabye replaced pyright and black with them.
- [ ] Look into adding [nvim-treesitter-textobjects](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-textobjects) to the config
- [ ] Look into enabling [codecompanion](https://github.com/olimorris/codecompanion.nvim/tree/main)
    - [ ] Look at this configuration for ideas: [custom config from reddit](https://github.com/oca159/lazyvim/blob/main/lua/plugins/codecompanion.lua)
    - [ ] Get copilot free student trial either with my school email or with Chris's.
- [ ] Remove diff window in undotree. This window is the window below the undotree window, it shows the diff between the current state of the file and the last state of the file. Mabye I would use it more in the future, in that case, disregad this
- [ ] look into adding `nvim-web-devicons` plugin

Commit message:

add look into changing ghost text to autocomplete menue bullet point

ConfigNotes.md, after:

# Things to Change About My Current Neovim Config
- [ ] Look into replacing harpoon with this plugin: [arrow.nvim](https://github.com/otavioschwanck/arrow.nvim)
- [ ] Change left most section of lualine with the current time. Currently it just show {line_num}:{column_num} which is not very useful
- [ ] Upgrade lazy.nvim
- [ ] Remove unused terminal toggle.
- [ ] Look into basedpyright and basedblack. Mabye replaced pyright and black with them.
- [ ] Look into adding [nvim-treesitter-textobjects](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter-textobjects) to the config
- [ ] Look into enabling [codecompanion](https://github.com/olimorris/codecompanion.nvim/tree/main)
    - [ ] Look at this configuration for ideas: [custom config from reddit](https://github.com/oca159/lazyvim/blob/main/lua/plugins/codecompanion.lua)
    - [ ] Get copilot free student trial either with my school email or with Chris's.
- [ ] Look into changing codeium/copilot suggestions to the autocomplete menue insthead of ghost text suggestions.
- [ ] Remove diff window in undotree. This window is the window below the undotree window, it shows the diff between the current state of the file and the last state of the file. Mabye I would use it more in the future, in that case, disregad this
- [ ] look into adding `nvim-web-devicons` plugin
